chore(blog): add status blog post for week 43-20 (#144)
asyncapi/website: pages/blog/status-update-43-20.md

---
title: "AsyncAPI Initiative Status Update (week 43, 2020)"
date: 2020-10-20T06:00:00+01:00
type: Communication
featured: true
tags:
  - Status
  - Community
cover: /img/posts/status-update-43/cover.webp
authors:
  - name: Lukasz Gornicki
    photo: /img/avatars/lpgornicki.webp
    link: https://twitter.com/derberq
    byline: AsyncAPI Maintainer and Community Guardian
---

## AsyncAPI JavaScript Parser 1.0.0 Is Out

I’m very proud to share that we are finally there, release 1.0.0 is out in the wild.

> I'm very proud to share that we are finally there, release 1.0.0 is out in the wild.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: why you want to remove this sentence?

One month passed since the last release candidate, and no one reported any blockers for our first major release.

> AsyncAPI JavaScript Parser is an official library that validates AsyncAPI documents and returns a set of functions that make it much easier to access the document's contents. It works well both in the browser and in Node.js. We use it for very long in our React component to parse in the browser and in the AsyncAPI Generator to parse documents in the Node.js server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AsyncAPI JavaScript Parser is an official library that validates AsyncAPI documents and returns a set of functions that make it much easier to access the document's contents. It works well both in the browser and in Node.js. We've been using it for very long in our React component to parse in the browser and in the AsyncAPI Generator to parse documents in the Node.js server and CLI.
```

> Please join us in the celebration. We do it in a typical asynchronous way. Everyone celebrates whenever you can...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please join us in the celebration. We do it in a typical asynchronous way. Everyone celebrates whenever they can...
```

<center>
<img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/Vj97qNut6WDHa/giphy.gif"></img>

> </center>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img className="w-full" src="https://media.giphy.com/media/Vj97qNut6WDHa/giphy.gif" />
```

or

```suggestion
<div className="text-center">
  <img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/Vj97qNut6WDHa/giphy.gif" />
</div>
```

## HTML Template Improvements

Hacktoberfest contributions brought many improvements and bug fixes. Two weeks ago, during the last status update, the HTML template version was 0.12.2, and now it is 0.15.0.

### PDF Generation

The template supports now an additional parameter called `pdf`. You use it to get an additional PDF file generated, next to the index.html file. In the CLI, pass `-p pdf=true` to get it. Thank you [Talmiz Ahmed](https://github.com/HashTalmiz).

### Change Default Name of HTML File

The template now supports an additional parameter called `outFilename`. You use it to change the default index.html file to something different, like for example, asyncapi.html. In the CLI, pass `-p outFilename=asyncapi.html` to get it. Thank you [Mitchell Sawatzky](https://github.com/bufutda). 

### Display of Schema UID

Due to suggestions from different community members, we now display the UID of the schema. UID is displayed only if it is provided. An anonymous UID assigned by the AsyncAPI Parser to schemas without UID is not shown.

Notice how it is displayed in the below example, next to the first two **mixedTypeArray** property schemas.

> <img width="80%" src="/img/posts/status-update-43/display-schema-uid.webp"></img>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img className="w-3/4" src="/img/posts/status-update-43/display-schema-uid.webp" />
```

- We had 24 contributors
- We merged 58 pull requests!

Only around 20 issues left on our [list](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1vX4J395apexutfQ0OSqPNltFKDacmemHZwCmOXwHNLo/). Hurry up and become our star!

## Generator Release Candidate 13

We released [another](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator/releases/tag/v1.0.0-rc.12) release candidate with several security fixes. Important to notice in this RC is that we changed the way we build the docker image. Now it doesn’t contain the generator's sources but we install Generator CLI as a global application. This means the entrypoint is not “node ./cli.js” but “ag”, just like you would use it without Docker. Also, keep in mind that this release candidate now uses the official major release of the JavaScript Parser.

## AsyncAPI Special Interest Group (SIG) open meeting

The last meeting took place on Tuesday, 13th of October, 4PM UTC. Meeting notes and recording are available [here](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi/issues/451).

The next meeting is scheduled for next [Tuesday, 27th of October 8AM UTC](https://everytimezone.com/s/577ca99f). 

> We work on the agenda for the next meeting [here](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi/issues/455). At the moment, there is nothing in the agenda so you can sneak in your topic easily. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We work on the agenda for the next meeting [here](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi/issues/455). At the moment, there is nothing on the agenda so you can easily sneak your topic in. 
```
